---
title: Inline Contract Call
sidebar_position: 4
---

When you need to call methods from other contracts during the implementation of your own contract methods, there are two types:

1. Call view methods without expecting to modify any states of other contracts.
2. Call action methods and hope that the states of other contracts will be modified because of this calling.

For the first type, you can use `Context.Call` method to complete the call to the view methods and immediately obtain the return value, which can be applied in the context of the contract implementation.

For the second type, during the implementation of the AELF contract, all you can do is prepare a transaction without a signature (we call it an **inline transaction**) and **add it to a list**. Transactions on this list will be executed one by one recursively, following the completion of the code for the method you have implemented, based on the time it was added.

Therefore, it should be noted that on aelf, when you try to modify the states of other contracts, the modification does not occur immediately. It can only be gradually modified through **inline transactions** after the current contract method has been fully executed. This is different from EVM.

You can use the `Context.SendInline` method to add an inline transaction to the current executing context.

```csharp
// A method that modifies the contract state
public override Empty Update(StringValue input)
{
    var tokenContractAddress = Context.GetContractAddressByName(SmartContractConstants.TokenContractSystemName);
    // Do not forget to reference token_contract.proto to generate the TransferInput type.
    Context.SendInline(tokenContractAddress, "Transfer", new TransferInput
    {
        To = receiverAddress,
        Symbol = "ELF",
        Amount = 100
    });
    // Set the message value in the contract state
    State.Message.Value = input.Value;
    // Emit an event to notify listeners about something happened during the execution of this method
    Context.Fire(new UpdatedMessage
    {
        Value = input.Value
    });
    return new Empty();
}
```

In the above example, an inline transaction for transfer was added in the beginning of Update method, which attempts to call the **Transfer** method of the **MultiToken Contract** (one of the System Contracts) and will only be executed after the Update method is completed.

Of course, cross contract calls can also be completed through **ContractReferenceState**. ContractReferenceState is only meant to facilitate developers to call methods in other contracts, essentially the `Context.Call` and `Context.SendInline` are used to complete such tasks.
